The BiGAr project aims to innovate archaeological research by developing a digital application that integrates Building Information Modeling (BIM) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to document the 4D nature of archaeological evidence alongside traditional data like text and photography. This approach is faster and more comprehensive than current methods, enhancing collaboration via web platforms and providing new opportunities for spatial analysis and cultural landscape management. To date, BIM has been used only for architectural analysis in archaeology, without integration with GIS. BiGAr develops an innovative geospatial environment by creating a new digital workflow that merges GIS and BIM for managing archaeological data collected from fieldwork such as excavations and surveys. The project involves creating a dedicated application using open-source software and original programming scripts. The research brings together the expertise of three institutions: the University of Michigan (outgoing phase, supervisor Prof. Nicola Terrenato), the University of Minho (secondment, supervisor Prof. Miguel Azenha), and the University of Bologna (return phase, supervisor Prof. Andrea Augenti). Field data are related to two archaeological projects focused on areas surrounding two ancient capitals: the Gabii Project in Rome (University of Michigan) and the Ravenna Landscape Archaeological Project in Ravenna (University of Bologna). Dr. Marco Cavalazzi’s research is funded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 program under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant agreement No. 101029015 (BiGAr project). More details are available at BiGAr website: https://site.unibo.it/bim-gis-integration-for-archaeology/en . 
